📝 how-to/audit-logs (#600)
sequinstream/sequin: docs/how-to/create-audit-logs.mdx

description: "Create a reliable log of all changes in your database"
---

Audit logs are an essential tool for tracking and recording changes in your database. With Sequin, you can create comprehensive audit logs of changes in your Postgres database that help you:

- **Maintain compliance**: Meet regulatory requirements by tracking all data modifications
- **Debug issues**: Trace the history of changes to investigate problems
- **Build customer features**: Create activity feeds, change history views, and even undo/redo functionality for your users
- **Data recovery**: Maintain a backup of deleted or modified data, enabling recovery from accidental deletions or unwanted changes

> ### Comparison with other solutions

Reviewer: We can drop the comparison

  <Step title="Select the message type">
    Leave the default "Changes" message type selected.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Leave message grouping default">
    If your sink supports message grouping, leave the default option selected for "Message grouping".
    
    This will ensure that messages are [grouped by primary key](/reference/sinks/overview#message-grouping-and-ordering), helping eliminate race conditions as you write audit logs.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Specify backfill">
    If you want to snapshot your current rows from your source table into your audit logs, specify a backfill.

    Backfill messages are [change messages](/reference/messages#change-messages) where the `action` is `read`.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Configure sink-specific settings">
    Configure sink-specific settings and click "Create Sink".
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Process changes

Once your sink is configured, changes from your source table will flow to your message queue or HTTP endpoint. Before implementing your audit processor, consider these key requirements for reliable audit logging:

### Important considerations

1. **Idempotency**: Implement idempotent processing to handle edge cases safely

>    - Your target table should have a unique constraint on the `event_id` column
>    - Use upsert operations (`ON CONFLICT` clauses) to handle potential duplicate messages
>    - Duplicates are rare and only occur if your processor successfully writes to the database but fails to:
>      - Acknowledge messages from the queue (SQS/Kafka)
>      - Return a 200 status code (HTTP endpoints)
>      - In these cases, the message will be redelivered to ensure at-least-once delivery

Reviewer: You can maybe wrap in Info block?

```suggestion
   - Your target table should have a unique constraint on the `event_id` column
   - Use upsert operations (`ON CONFLICT` clauses) to handle potential duplicate messages
   
   Duplicates are rare and only occur if your processor successfully writes to the database but fails to acknowledge messages from the queue (SQS/Kafka) or return a 200 status code (HTTP endpoints). In these cases, the message will be redelivered to ensure at-least-once delivery.
```

2. **Type handling**: Cast JSON to Postgres types

    Sequin sends events to your consumer in JSON. Since JSON's types are not as rich as Postgres' types, you'll need to cast values appropriately when writing to your database.

    Common conversions include:
    - Timestamps/dates: Cast from strings to `timestamp` or `date`
    - UUIDs: Cast from strings to `uuid`

>     - Numeric types: Cast to `decimal`, `bigint`, etc. based on precision needs

Reviewer: good

3. **Batch processing**: For better performance, batch your database operations:
   - Consider your message queue's batching capabilities (e.g., SQS batch size)

>    - Group similar operations and perform them in a single database operation

Reviewer: This doesn't apply to audit logging, right?

        elif action == 'update':
            return f"Updated order #{record['order_number']}"
    # ... etc
```

## Verify your pipeline is working

If you specified a backfill, there should be messages in your sink ready for your system to process:

1. On the sink overview page, click the "Messages" tab. You should see messages flowing to your sink.
2. Check your audit tables to ensure changes are being recorded as expected.

## Maintenance

### Re-syncing your audit logs

You may need to re-sync your audit logs in these scenarios:

1. **Schema changes**: Updates to source or audit table schema
2. **Logic updates**: Changes to audit transformation logic
3. **Data recovery**: Recovering from processing errors

Streaming `changes`, by default, does not include retention. This means that a `change` message is evicted from Sequin after it is propagated to the destination sink.

When streaming `changes` without retention, you can [backfill](/reference/backfills) from the source table. The change messages will be of action `read` and will only include the value currently in the database. Old values and deleted rows are not included.

> If you need the ability to re-sync your audit logs with full history of changes, you can use a [Change Retention](/reference/change-retention).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need the ability to re-sync your audit logs with full history of changes, you can use [Change retention](/reference/change-retention).
```

- **Manual application logging**: Implementing audit logging in your application code is error-prone and can miss database changes that happen outside your app. Sequin captures all changes directly from Postgres' WAL.

## When to use this guide

This approach works well when you need to:
- Track all modifications to sensitive data for compliance
- Create activity feeds or change history for users
- Enable data recovery from accidental changes

> - Build undo/redo functionality in your application

Reviewer: I'd say either keep this and drop the first list at the very top, or vice versa

## Prerequisites

If you're self-hosting Sequin, you'll need:

1. [Sequin installed](/quickstart/self-host)
2. [A database connected](/how-to/connect-postgres) 
3. A destination database ready to receive audit logs
4. A sink destination (like SQS, Kafka, Redis, or HTTP)

If you're using Sequin Cloud, you'll need:

1. [A Sequin Cloud account](https://console.sequinstream.com)
2. [A database connected](/how-to/connect-postgres)
3. A destination database ready to receive audit logs
4. A sink destination (like SQS, Kafka, Redis, or HTTP)

<Note>
  If using SQS, be sure to use a FIFO queue.
</Note>

## Architecture overview

Your audit logging pipeline will have these components:

1. **Source table(s)**: The table(s) in Postgres that you want to audit
2. **Destination sink**: The message queue or webhook endpoint that delivers changes to your processing system (e.g. SQS, Kafka, or HTTP endpoint)

> 3. **Audit processor**: An application or service you write that receives changes and writes to your audit tables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Processor**: An application or service you write that receives changes and writes to your audit tables
```

## Create a sink

First, create a sink to the queue, stream, or webhook endpoint that you want to use to process changes:

<Steps>
  <Step title="Select the source">
    Select the table(s) you want to audit.

    Optionally add SQL filters to audit a subset of your source table.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Select the message type">
    Leave the default "Changes" message type selected.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Leave message grouping default">
    If your sink supports message grouping, leave the default option selected for "Message grouping".
    

>     This will ensure that messages are [grouped by primary key](/reference/ordering-and-grouping), helping eliminate race conditions as you write audit logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This will ensure that messages are [grouped by primary key](/reference/sinks/overview#message-grouping-and-ordering), helping eliminate race conditions as you write audit logs.
```

  </Step>

  <Step title="Specify backfill">

>     If you want to include the current state of your source table in your audit logs, specify `backfill`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you want to snapshot your current rows from your source table into your audit logs, specify a backfill.
```

    Backfill messages are [change messages](/reference/messages#change-messages) where the `action` is `read`.
  </Step>

  <Step title="Configure sink-specific settings">
    Configure sink-specific settings and click "Create Sink".
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Process changes

Once your sink is configured, changes from your source table will flow to your message queue or HTTP endpoint. Before implementing your audit processor, consider these key requirements for reliable audit logging:

### Important considerations

> 1. **Idempotency**: Always use `ON CONFLICT` clauses to handle duplicate messages safely

Reviewer: We should clarify when they will receive duplicate messages - my reaction reading this would be - "Wait, you're going to send me dupes"?

i.e. if this is an edge case, we can specify when it might happen and then tell them how to avoid it from causing issues?

   - Your target table should have a unique constraint on the `event_id` column
   - Use upsert operations to safely handle duplicate messages

2. **Type handling**: Cast JSON types appropriately when writing to Postgres:
   - Timestamps/dates: Cast from strings to `timestamp` or `date`
   - UUIDs: Cast from strings to `uuid`
   - Numeric types: Cast to `decimal`, `bigint`, etc. based on precision needs

>    Sequin sends events to your consumer in JSON. JSON's types are not as rich as Postgres' types. So you may need to cast the types appropriately.

Reviewer: Should we start with "Sequin sends events to your consumer in JSON" and then list the castings?

3. **Batch processing**: For better performance, batch your database operations:
   - Consider your message queue's batching capabilities (e.g., SQS batch size)
   - Group similar operations and perform them in a single database operation

4. **Error handling**: Implement proper error handling and retries for your sink type:

>    - For SQS, failed messages return to the queue

Reviewer: For SQS, what should they do? This doesn't feel actionable

   - For webhooks, return non-200 status to trigger retries

>    - For Kafka, manage your own offset commits

Reviewer: This makes me wonder if we need error handling at all here 🤔

### Example: Basic audit table

First, create an audit table to store your change history:

```sql create_table.sql
create table audit_logs (
  id serial primary key,
  event_id uuid unique not null,
  table_name text not null,
  record_id uuid not null,
  action text not null,
  old_values jsonb,
  new_values jsonb,
  created_at timestamp not null default now(),
  updated_at timestamp
);

-- Optional: Add indexes for common queries
create index on audit_logs(table_name, record_id);

> create index on audit_logs(created_at);

Reviewer: Without a unique index on event_id, won't we not have idempotency?

```

### Process changes

> Map changes to your audit log table and perform a batch upsert operation. We recommend using a `do update` clause rather than `do nothing` to handle duplicates - this allows you to correct any bugs by replaying events and overwriting incorrect values.

Reviewer: This is a little too succinct. I'd do something like retain the first two sentences:

> Map changes to your audit log table and perform a batch upsert operation. We recommend using a `do update` clause rather than `do nothing` to handle duplicates.

And then describe the "why" in an Info block or something? I think the why is good, just needs a sentence or two to breathe.

```python process_changes.py
def process_changes(changes):
    audit_records = []
    
    for change in changes:
        record = {
            'event_id': uuid.UUID(change.id),
            'table_name': change.source_table,
            'record_id': uuid.UUID(change.record['id']),
            'action': change.action,
            'old_values': json.dumps(change.changes) if change.changes else None,
            'new_values': json.dumps(change.record),
            'created_at': datetime.now(),
            'updated_at': datetime.now()
        }
        audit_records.append(record)

    if audit_records:
        db.execute("""
            insert into audit_logs (
                event_id, table_name, record_id, 
                action, old_values, new_values, created_at, updated_at
            )

>             select * from unnest(%(records)s)

Reviewer: I'm just realizing - is this unnest really going to work? Recall what our unnest batch upsert had to look like:

https://github.com/sequinstream/sequin/blob/master/lib/sequin/replication_runtime/wal_pipeline_server.ex#L360-L387

Assuming this won't work, I think for these docs we may want to show single upserts -- and then either cop-out by saying that they can batch with their ORM and/or linking to a common document we have somewhere that explains how to generically batch upsert in SQL

            on conflict (event_id) do update set
                table_name = excluded.table_name,
                record_id = excluded.record_id,
                action = excluded.action,
                old_values = excluded.old_values,
                new_values = excluded.new_values,
                updated_at = excluded.updated_at
        """, {'records': audit_records})
```

Your audit log table will now be populated with old and new values for each change that occurs in your source table(s).

### Example: Activity feed

> There may be times when you want to transform the audit data before writing it to your audit table.  For example, you might want to transform the audit data into a more readable format to power a user activity feed.

Reviewer: This is a great idea!

Create an activity feed table to store your transformed audit data:

```sql
create table activity_feed (
    id serial primary key,
    event_id uuid unique not null,
    user_id uuid not null,
    action text not null,
    description text not null,
    metadata jsonb,
    created_at timestamp not null default now()
);

create index on activity_feed(user_id, created_at);
```

Map changes to the updated `activity_feed` table schema and perform a batch insert operation:

```python
def process_changes(changes):
    activities = []
    
    for change in changes:
        # Only process relevant tables/actions
        if change.source_table not in ['orders', 'subscriptions']:

>             continue

Reviewer: what are you demonstrating here?

            change.action,
            change.record
        )
        
        activity = {
            'event_id': uuid.UUID(change.id),
            'user_id': uuid.UUID(change.record['user_id']),
            'action': change.action,
            'description': description,
            'metadata': json.dumps(change.record),
            'created_at': datetime.now()
        }
        activities.append(activity)

    if activities:
        db.execute("""
            insert into activity_feed (
                event_id, user_id, action,
                description, metadata, created_at
            )
            select * from unnest(%(records)s)
            on conflict (event_id) do update set
                user_id = excluded.user_id,
                action = excluded.action,
                description = excluded.description,
                metadata = excluded.metadata
        """, {'records': activities})

def generate_activity_description(table, action, record):
    if table == 'orders':
        if action == 'insert':
            return f"Created order #{record['order_number']}"
        elif action == 'update':
            return f"Updated order #{record['order_number']}"

>     # ... etc

Reviewer: 👍

```

## Verify your pipeline is working

If you specified a backfill, there should be messages in your sink ready for your system to process:

1. On the sink overview page, click the "Messages" tab. You should see messages flowing to your sink.
2. Check your audit tables to ensure changes are being recorded as expected.

## Maintenance

### Re-syncing your audit logs

You may need to re-sync your audit logs in these scenarios:

1. **Schema changes**: Updates to source or audit table schema
2. **Logic updates**: Changes to audit transformation logic
3. **Data recovery**: Recovering from processing errors

> You can use a [backfill](/reference/backfills) to replay data from your source table through your pipeline.

Reviewer: Not so fast! Can't backfill changes

Reviewer: We should discuss this / this trade-off somewhere?
